README.md, before:

test-php-gettext
================

Simple test code to catch the sometimes strange behaviour of PHP's gettext module
and to evaluate alternatives (currently only Zend Framework's Zend_Translate class).

A GNU Makefile is supplied in the LC_MESSAGES subdirectory in order to update the
.po file from changed sources and to create the .mo file from the .po file.

### Testing Environments: ###
  - Linux: Ubuntu 14.04 LTS with
    - Apache 2.4.7
    - PHP 5.5.9-1ubuntu4.4
    - Zend Framework 1.12.9 (locally unpacked)
    - PHP runkit: zenovich/runkit@27f33f55eae4459448fc39fac49daba26bb6b575 (current master)
  - Windows: Windows 7 x64 with
    - Apache 2.4.10 win32-VC11 [x86] from Apache Lounge
    - PHP 5.6.1 win32-VC11 [x86] from php.net
    - Zend Framework 1.12.9 (locally unpacked)
    - PHP runkit: https://github.com/Crack/runkit-windows/blob/master/php_runkit-1.0.4-5e179e978a-5.5-vc11.dll

### installing runkit under Ubuntu 14.04 LTS ###
 - ~~`pecl install runkit` or `pecl install channel://pecl.php.net/runkit-0.9`~~ **does not work**!
 - `git clone https://github.com/zenovich/runkit.git`
 - `mv runkit runkit-1.0.4`
 - `mv runkit-1.0.4/package.xml .`
 - `tar cvz --exclude-vcs -f /tmp/runkit-master.tgz .`
 - `sudo pecl install /tmp/runkit-master.tgz` to build and install the extension
 - create the file `/etc/php5/mods-available/runkit.ini` with this content:
 
```
; configuration for php runkit module
; priority=20
extension=runkit.so
```

  - add these lines to `/etc/php5/apache2/php.ini`:

```
[runkit]
runkit.internal_override=1
```

 - `sudo php5enmon runkit` to enable runkit extension
 - `sudo service apache2 restart`

### Links ###
 - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1473207/php-gettext-on-windows
 - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/12356987/gettext-on-windows-7-doesnt-translate?rq=1
 - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/11598263/apache-gettext-windows-does-not-work-translate
 - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/7091724/gettext-php-and-windows-2008
 - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/10486857/php-gettext-no-translation
 - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6925736/how-to-redefine-a-function-in-php
 - http://framework.zend.com/manual/1.12/de/zend.translate.html
 - https://launchpad.net/php-gettext/
 - http://blog.ghost3k.net/articles/php/11/gettext-caching-in-php

Commit message:

added results of performance tests

README.md, after:

test-php-gettext
================

Simple test code to catch the sometimes strange behaviour of PHP's gettext module
and to evaluate alternatives (currently only Zend Framework's Zend_Translate class
and the PHP implementation of gettext).

A GNU Makefile is supplied in the LC_MESSAGES subdirectory in order to update the
.po file from changed sources and to create the .mo file from the .po file.

### Testing Environments: ###
  - Linux: Ubuntu 14.04 LTS with
    - Apache 2.4.7
    - PHP 5.5.9-1ubuntu4.4
    - Zend Framework 1.12.9 (locally unpacked)
    - PHP runkit: zenovich/runkit@27f33f55eae4459448fc39fac49daba26bb6b575 (current master)
  - Windows: Windows 7 x64 with
    - Apache 2.4.10 win32-VC11 [x86] from Apache Lounge
    - PHP 5.6.1 win32-VC11 [x86] from php.net
    - Zend Framework 1.12.9 (locally unpacked)
    - PHP runkit: https://github.com/Crack/runkit-windows/blob/master/php_runkit-1.0.4-5e179e978a-5.5-vc11.dll

### installing runkit under Ubuntu 14.04 LTS ###
 - ~~`pecl install runkit` or `pecl install channel://pecl.php.net/runkit-0.9`~~ **does not work**!
 - `git clone https://github.com/zenovich/runkit.git`
 - `mv runkit runkit-1.0.4`
 - `mv runkit-1.0.4/package.xml .`
 - `tar cvz --exclude-vcs -f /tmp/runkit-master.tgz .`
 - `sudo pecl install /tmp/runkit-master.tgz` to build and install the extension
 - create the file `/etc/php5/mods-available/runkit.ini` with this content:
 
```
; configuration for php runkit module
; priority=20
extension=runkit.so
```

  - add these lines to `/etc/php5/apache2/php.ini`:

```
[runkit]
runkit.internal_override=1
```

 - `sudo php5enmon runkit` to enable runkit extension
 - `sudo service apache2 restart`

### Performance ###
I added simple performance tests to all examples. Results on my machine (GNU/Linux) for 1000000 calls:
 - plain ext_gettext: 0.26s
 - ext_gettext with workaround and runkit usage: 1.4s
 - PHP implementation of gettext: 0.57s
 - Zend_Translate class: 3.1s
 - Zend_Translate class with Zend_Cache: 3.1s

### Links ###
 - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1473207/php-gettext-on-windows
 - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/12356987/gettext-on-windows-7-doesnt-translate?rq=1
 - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/11598263/apache-gettext-windows-does-not-work-translate
 - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/7091724/gettext-php-and-windows-2008
 - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/10486857/php-gettext-no-translation
 - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6925736/how-to-redefine-a-function-in-php
 - http://framework.zend.com/manual/1.12/de/zend.translate.html
 - https://launchpad.net/php-gettext/
 - http://blog.ghost3k.net/articles/php/11/gettext-caching-in-php
